<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
			<section id="chapter-4-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>The children all slept late, and all woke at the same moment as if by clockwork. They sat up, and yawned uniformly, and stretched the stiffness out of their legs and backs (they were lying on solid wood, remember).</p>
				<p>The schooner was steady, and people tramping about the deck. The main-hold and fore-hold were all one: and from where they were they could see the main-hatch had been opened. The captain appeared through it legs first, and dropped onto the higgledy-piggledy of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Clorinda's</i> cargo.</p>
				<p>For some time they simply stared at him. He looked uneasy, and was talking to himself as he tapped now this case with his pencil, now that; and presently shouted rather fiercely to people on deck.</p>
				<p>“All right, all right,” came from above the injured voice of the mate. “There’s no such hurry as all that.”</p>
				<p>On which the captain’s mutterings to himself swelled, as if ten people were conversing at once in his chest.</p>
				<p>“May we get up yet?” asked Rachel.</p>
				<p>Captain Jonsen spun round⁠—he had forgotten their existence.</p>
				<p>“Eh?”</p>
				<p>“May we get up, please?”</p>
				<p>“You can go to the debble.” He muttered this so low the children did not hear it. But it was not lost on the mate.</p>
				<p>“Hey! Ey! Ey!” he called down, reprovingly.</p>
				<p>“Yes! Get up! Go on deck! Here!” The captain viciously set up a short ladder for them to climb through the hatch.</p>
				<p>They were greatly astonished to find the schooner was no longer at sea. Instead, she was snugly moored against a little wooden wharf, in a pleasant landlocked bay; with a pleasant but untidy village, of white wooden houses with palm-leaf roofs, behind it; and the tower of a small sandstone church emerging from the abundant greenery. On the quay were a few well-dressed loungers, watching the preparations for unloading. The mate was directing the labours of the crew, who were rigging the cargo-gaff and getting ready for a hot morning’s work.</p>
				<p>The mate nodded cheerfully to the children, but thereafter took no notice of them, which was rather mortifying. The truth is that the man was busy.</p>
				<p>At the same time there emerged from somewhere aft a collection of the oddest-looking young men. Margaret decided she had never seen such beautiful young men before. They were slim, yet nicely rounded: and dressed in exquisite clothes (if a trifle threadbare). But their faces! Those beautiful olive-tinted ovals! Those large, black-ringed, soft brown eyes, those unnaturally carmine lips! They minced across the deck, chattering to each other in high-pitched tones, “twittering like a cage of linnets⁠ ⁠…” and made their way on shore.</p>
				<p>“Who are they?” Emily asked the captain, who had just re-emerged from below.</p>
				<p>“Who are who?” he murmured absently, without looking round. “Oh, those? Fairies.”</p>
				<p>“<em>Hey! Yey! Yey!</em>” cried the mate, more disapprovingly than ever.</p>
				<p>“<em>Fairies?</em>” cried Emily in astonishment.</p>
				<p>But Captain Jonsen began to blush. He went crimson from the nape of his neck to the bald patches on the top of his head, and left.</p>
				<p>“He is <em>silly</em>!” said Emily.</p>
				<p>“I wonder if we go onto the land yet,” said Edward.</p>
				<p>“We’d better wait until we’re told, hadn’t we, Emily?” said Harry.</p>
				<p>“I didn’t know England would be like this,” said Rachel: “it’s very like Jamaica.”</p>
				<p>“This isn’t England,” said John, “you stupid!”</p>
				<p>“But it must be,” said Rachel: “England’s where we’re going.”</p>
				<p>“We don’t get to England yet,” said John: “it must be somewhere we’re stopping at, like when we got all those turtles.”</p>
				<p>“I like stopping at places,” said Laura.</p>
				<p>“I don’t,” said Rachel.</p>
				<p>“I do, though,” pursued Laura.</p>
				<p>“Where are those young men gone?” Margaret asked the mate. “Are they coming back?”</p>
				<p>“They’ll just come back to be paid, after we’ve sold the cargo,” he answered.</p>
				<p>“Then they’re not living on the ship?” she pursued.</p>
				<p>“No, we hired them from Havana.”</p>
				<p>“But what for?”</p>
				<p>He looked at her in surprise: “Why, those are the ‘ladies’ we had on board, to look like passengers⁠—You didn’t think they were real ladies, did you?”</p>
				<p>“What, were they dressed up?” asked Emily excitedly: “What fun!”</p>
				<p>“I like dressing up,” said Laura.</p>
				<p>“I don’t,” said Rachel, “I think it’s babyish.”</p>
				<p>“<em>I</em> thought they were real ladies,” admitted Emily.</p>
				<p>“We’re a respectable ship’s crew, we are,” said the mate, a trifle stiffly⁠—and without too good logic, when you come to think of it. “Here, you go on shore and amuse yourselves.”</p>
				<p>So the children went ashore, holding hands in a long row, and promenaded the town in a formal sort of way. Laura wanted to go off by herself, but the others would not let her: and when they returned, the line was still unbroken. They had seen all there was to see, and no one had taken the least notice of them (so far as they were aware), and they wanted to start asking questions again.</p>
				<p>It was, then, a charming little sleepy old place, in its way, this Santa Lucia: isolated on the forgotten western end of Cuba between Nombre de Dios and the Rio de Puercos: cut off from the open sea by the intricate nature of the channels through the reefs and the Banks of Isabella, channels only navigable to the practised and creeping local coasting craft and shunned like poison by bigger traffic: on land isolated by a hundred miles of forest from Havana.</p>
				<p>Time was, these little ports of the Canal de Guaniguanico had been pretty prosperous, as bases for pirates: but it was a fleeting prosperity. There came the heroic attack of an American squadron under Captain Allen, in 1823, on the Bay of Sejuapo, their headquarters. From that blow (although it took many years to take full effect) the industry never really recovered: it dwindled and dwindled, like hand-weaving. One could make money much faster in a city like Havana, and with less risk (if less respectably). Piracy had long since ceased to pay, and should have been scrapped years ago: but a vocational tradition will last on a long time after it has ceased to be economic, in a decadent form. Now, Santa Lucia⁠—and piracy⁠—continued to exist because they always had: but for no other reason. Such a haul as the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Clorinda</i> did not come once in a blue moon. Every year the amount of land under cultivation dwindled, and the pirate schooners were abandoned to rot against the wharves or ignominiously sold as traders. The young men left for Havana or the United States. The maidens yawned. The local grandees increased in dignity as their numbers and property dwindled: an idyllic, simple-minded country community, oblivious of the outer world and of its own approaching oblivion.</p>
				<p>“I don’t think I should like to live here,” John decided, when they got back to the ship.</p>
				<p>Meanwhile the cargo had been unloaded onto the quay: and after the siesta a crowd of about a hundred people gathered round, poking and discussing. The auction was about to begin. Captain Jonsen tramped about rather in the way of everybody, but especially annoying the mate by shouting contrary directions every minute. The latter had a ledger, and a number of labels with numbers on them which he was pasting onto the various bales and packages. The sailors were building a kind of temporary stage⁠—the thing was to be done in style.</p>
				<p>Every moment the crowd increased. Because they all talked Spanish it was a pantomime to the children: like puppets acting, not like real people moving and talking. So they discovered what a fascinating game it is to watch foreigners, whose very simplest words mean nothing to you, and try to guess what they are about.</p>
				<p>Moreover, these were all such funny-looking people: they moved about as if they were kings, and spat all the time, and smoked thin black cigars, the blue smoke of which ascended from their enormous hats as from censers.</p>
				<p>At one moment there was a diversion⁠—the crowd suddenly gaped, and there staggered onto the stage the whole crew of the schooner carrying a huge pair of scales: it was always on the point of being too much for them, and running suddenly away with them in another direction.</p>
				<p>There were quite a number of ladies in the crowd⁠—old ones, they seemed to the children. Some were thin and dried up, like monkeys: but most were fat, and one was fatter than all of them and treated with the greatest respect (perhaps for her moustache). She was the wife of the Chief Magistrate⁠—Señora del Illustrious Juzgado del Municipal de Santa Lucia, to give her her title. She had a rocking-chair of suitable strength and width, which was carried by a short squinting negro and set in the very middle of the scene, right in front of the platform. There she throned herself: and the negro stood behind her, holding a violet silk sunshade over her head.</p>
				<p>No one can doubt that she immediately became the most noticeable thing in the picture.</p>
				<p>She had a powerful bass voice, and when she uttered some jocundity (as she repeatedly did), everyone heard it, however much they were chattering among themselves.</p>
				<p>The children, as was their custom, wormed their way without any excess of civility through the crowd and grouped themselves round her throne.</p>
				<p>The captain either did not know, or suddenly refused to know, a single word of Spanish: so the auctioneering devolved on the mate. The latter mounted the stage: and with a great assumption of competence began.</p>
				<p>But auctioneering is an art: it is as easy to write a sonnet in a foreign tongue as to conduct a successful auction. One must have at one’s command eloquence without a hitch: the faculty of kindling an audience, amusing them, castigating them, converting them, till they rattle out increments as a camp-meeting rattles out Amens: till they totally forget the worth (and even the nature) of the lot, and begin to take a real pride in a long run of bidding⁠—as a champion does in a long break at billiards.</p>
				<p>This little Viennese had been to a good school, it is true: for he had once resided in Wales, where one sees auctioneering in its finest flower. In Welsh, or English, or even in his native tongue, he could have acquitted himself fairly well: but in Spanish, just that margin of power was lacking to him. The audience remained stern, cold, critical, bidding grudgingly.</p>
				<p>As if this language difficulty were not in itself enough, there sat that overpowering old dame on her throne, distracting with her jokes whatever vestige of attention he might otherwise have managed to arouse.</p>
				<p>When the third lot of coffee came to be dealt with, there was even the beginning of a rather nasty row. The children were highly scandalised: they had never seen grownups being rude to one another before. The captain had undertaken the weighing: and it was something to do with a habit he had of leaning against the scales while he read them. Being shortsighted, he could see the figures much more clearly like that: but it displeased the buyers, and they had a lot to say about it.</p>
				<p>The captain, mortified, wrung his hands, and began to answer them in Danish. They rejoined in Spanish even more stingingly. He stumped off in a sulk: they could all conduct his affairs without him, if they weren’t prepared to treat him with a little consideration.</p>
				<p>But who would be less partial? The mate, angry, maintained that to elect one of the buyers was equally objectionable.</p>
				<p>Thereon an earthquake began in the fat old lady, and gradually gathered enough force to lift her onto her feet. She took John by the shoulders, and pushed him before her to the scales. Then in a few witty, ringing words she suggested her solution⁠—<em>he</em> should do the weighing.</p>
				<p>The audience were pleased: but as soon as John understood he went very red, and wanted to escape. The rest of the children, on the other hand, were eaten with envy.</p>
				<p>“Mayn’t I help too?” piped Rachel.</p>
				<p>The despairing mate thought he saw just a forlorn hope in this. While John was being instructed, he gathered the other children: and out of the heap of miscellaneous clothing rigged them all out in a sort of fancy dress. Then he gave them the samples to carry round, and the sale began anew.</p>
				<p>It had now assumed rather the character of a parochial bazaar. Even the Vicar was present⁠—though less well shaved than he would have been in England, and cunninger-looking. He was one of the only buyers.</p>
				<p>The children thoroughly enjoyed themselves, and minced and pranced and tugged each other’s turbans. But the crowd was a Latin one, not Nordic: and their endearing tricks failed altogether to arouse any interest. The sale went worse than ever.</p>
				<p>There was only one exception, and that was the important old lady. Once her attention had been called (by her own act) to the children, it fixed itself on one of them, on Edward. She drew him to her bosom, like a mother in melodrama, and with her hairy mouth gave him three resounding kisses.</p>
				<p>Edward could no more have struggled than if caught by a boa. Moreover, the portentous woman fascinated him, as if she had been a boa indeed. He lay in her arms limp, self-conscious, and dejected: but without active thought of escape.</p>
				<p>And so the business went on: on the one hand the unheeded drone of the mate, on the other the great creature still keeping up her witticisms, still dominating everything: all of a sudden remembering Edward, and giving him a couple of kisses like so many bombs: then clean forgetting all about him: then remembering him again, and hugging him: then dropping her salts: then nearly dropping Edward: then suddenly twisting round to launch a dart into the crowd behind her⁠—she was the despair of that unhappy auctioneer, who saw lot after lot fall for a tenth of its value, or even find no bidder at all.</p>
				<p>Captain Jonsen, however, had his own idea of how to enliven a parochial bazaar that is proving a frost. He went on board, and mixed several gallons of that potion known in alcoholic circles as Hangman’s Blood (which is compounded of rum, gin, brandy, and porter). Innocent (merely beery) as it looks, refreshing as it tastes, it has the property of increasing rather than allaying thirst, and so, once it has made a breach, soon demolishes the whole fort.</p>
				<p>This he poured out into mugs, merely remarking that it was a noted English cordial, and gave it to the children to distribute among the crowd.</p>
				<p>At once the Cubans began to show more interest in them than when they came bearing samples of arrowroot: and with their popularity their happiness increased, and like rococo Ganymedekins and Hebelettes they darted about the crowd, distributing the enticing poison to all who would.</p>
				<p>When he saw what was on foot, the mate wiped his mouth in despair.</p>
				<p>“<em>Oh</em> you fool!” he groaned.</p>
				<p>But the captain himself was highly pleased with his ruse: kept rubbing his hands, and grinning, and winking.</p>
				<p>“That’ll liven ’em, eh?”</p>
				<p>“Wait and see!” was all the mate let himself say. “You just wait and see!”</p>
				<p>“Look at Edward!” said Emily to Margaret in a pause. “It’s perfectly sickening!”</p>
				<p>It was. The very first mug rendered the fat señora even more motherly. Edward by now was fascinated, was in her power completely. He sat and gazed up in her little black eyes, his own large brown ones glazed with sentiment. He avoided her moustache, it is true: but on her cheek he was returning her kisses earnestly. All this, of course, without the possibility of their exchanging a single word⁠—pure instinct. “With a fork drive Nature out⁠ ⁠…” one would gladly have taken a fork to Nature, on that occasion.</p>
				<p>Meanwhile, on the rest of the crowd the liquor was having exactly the effect the mate had foreseen. Instead of stimulating them, it dissolved completely whatever vestiges of attention they were still giving to the sale. He stepped down from the platform⁠—gave it all up in despair. For they had now broken up into little groups, which discussed and argued their own affairs as if they were in a café. He in his turn went on board, and shut himself in his cabin⁠—Captain Jonsen could deal with the mess he had made himself!</p>
				<p>But alas! No worse host than Jonsen was ever born: he was utterly incapable of either understanding or controlling a crowd. All he could think of doing was plying them with more.</p>
				<p>For the children the spectacle was an absorbing one. The whole nature of these people, as they drank, seemed to be changing: under their very eyes something seemed to be breaking up, like ice melting. Remember that to them this was a pantomime: no word spoken to explain, and so the eyes exercised a peculiar clearness.</p>
				<p>It was rather as if the whole crowd had been immersed in water, and something dissolved out of them while the general structure yet remained. The tone of their voices changed, and they began to talk much slower, to move more slowly and elaborately. The expression of their faces became more candid, and yet more mask-like: hiding less, there was also less to hide. Two men even began to fight: but they fought so incompetently it was like a fight in a poetic play. Conversation, which before had a beginning and an end, now grew shapeless and interminable, and the women laughed a lot.</p>
				<p>One old gentleman in most respectable clothes settled himself on the dirty ground at full length, with his head in the shade of the throned lady, spread a handkerchief over his face, and went to sleep: three other middle-aged men, holding each other with one hand to establish contact and using the other for emphasis, kept up a continuous clacking talk, that faltered intolerably though never quite stopping⁠—like a very old engine.</p>
				<p>A dog ran in and out among them all wagging its tail, but no one kicked it. Presently it found the old gentleman who was asleep on the ground, and began licking his ear excitedly: it had never had such a chance before.</p>
				<p>The old lady also had fallen asleep, a little crookedly⁠—she might even have slipped off her chair if her negro had not buttressed her up. Edward got off her, and went and joined the other children rather shamefacedly: but they would not speak to him.</p>
				<p>Jonsen looked round him perplexedly. Why had Otto abandoned the sale, now the crowd were all primed and ready? Probably he had some good reason, though. He was an incomprehensible man, that mate: but clever.</p>
				<p>The truth is that Captain Jonsen was himself a man with a very weak head for liquor, and so he very seldom touched it, and knew little of the subtler aspects of its effects.</p>
				<p>He paced up and down the dusty wharf at his usual slow shuffle, his head sunk forward in wretchedness, occasionally wringing his hands in the naturalest way, and even whimpering. When the priest came up to him confidentially and offered him a price for all that remained unsold he simply shook his head and continued his shuffle.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>There was something a little nightmare-like in the whole scene which riveted the children’s attention, and was very near the border of frightening them. It was with something of a struggle that at last Margaret said “Let’s go on the ship.” So they all went on board: and feeling a little unprotected even there, descended into the hold, which was the safest place because they had already slept in it. They sat down on the kelson without doing or saying much, still with a vague apprehension, till boredom at last eliminated it.</p>
				<p>“Oh I <em>wish</em> I had brought my paintbox!” said Emily, with a sigh fetched right up from her boots.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-4-2" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>That night, after they had all gone to bed, they saw in a half-asleep state a lantern bobbing up and down in the open hatch. It was held by José, the little monkeyfied one (they had already decided he was the nicest of the crew). He was grinning winningly, and beckoning to them.</p>
				<p>Emily was too sleepy to move, and so were Laura and Rachel: so leaving them to lie, the others⁠—Margaret, Edward, and John⁠—scrambled on deck.</p>
				<p>It was mysteriously quiet. Not a sign of the crew, but for José. In the bright starlight the town looked unnormally beautiful: there was music coming from one of the big houses up by the church. José conducted them ashore and up to this house: tiptoed up to the jalousies and signed to them to follow him.</p>
				<p>As the light struck his face it became transfigured, so affected was he by the opulence within.</p>
				<p>The children craned up to the level of the windows and peered in too, oblivious of the mosquitoes making havoc of their necks.</p>
				<p>It was a very grand sight. This was the house of the Chief Magistrate: and he was giving a dinner in honour of Captain Jonsen and his mate. There he sat at the head of the table, in uniform; very stiff, yet his little beard even stiffer than himself. His was the kind of dignity that grows from reserve and stillness, from freezing every minute like game which scents the hunter: while in total contrast to him there sat his wife (the important señora who had made so much of Edward), far more impressive than her husband, but doing it not by dignity but by that calculated abandon and vulgarity which transcends dignity. Indeed, her flinging about got the greater part of its effect from the very formality of her setting.</p>
				<p>When the children arrived at the window she must even have been discussing the size of her own belly: for she suddenly seized the shy hand of the mate, and made him, willy-nilly, feel it, as if to clench an argument.</p>
				<p>As for her husband, he did not seem to see her: nor did the servants: she was such a very great lady.</p>
				<p>But it was not her, it was the meal which raped José’s attention. It was certainly an impressive one. Together on the table were tomato soup, mountain mullet, crayfish, a huge red-snapper, land-crabs, rice and fried chicken, a young turkey, a small joint of goat-mutton, a wild duck, beef steak, fried pork, a dish of wild pigeons, sweet potatoes, yuca, wine, and guavas and cream.</p>
				<p>It was a meal which would take a long time.</p>
				<p>Captain Jonsen and the lady appeared to be on excellent terms: he pressing some project on her, and she, without the least loss of amiability, putting it on one side. What they were talking about, of course, the children could not hear. As a matter of fact, it was themselves. Captain Jonsen was trying to get the lady to discuss the disposal of his impromptu nursery: the most reasonable solution being plainly to leave them at Santa Lucia, more or less in her charge. But she was adept at eluding the importunate. It was not till the banquet was over that he realised he had failed to make any arrangement whatever.</p>
				<p>But long before this, before the dinner was ended and the dance began, the children were tired of the peepshow. So José tiptoed away with them, down to the back streets by the dock. Presently they came to a mysterious door at the bottom of a staircase, with a negro standing as if on guard. But he made no effort to stop them, and, José leading them, they climbed several flights to a large upper room.</p>
				<p>The air was one you could hardly push through. The place was crowded with negroes, and a few rather smudgy whites: among whom they recognised most of the rest of the crew of the schooner. At the far end was the most primitive stage you ever saw: there was a cradle on it, and a large star swung on the end of a piece of string. There was to be a nativity-play⁠—rather early in the season. While the Chief Magistrate entertained the pirate captain and mate, the priest had got this up in honour of the pirate crew.</p>
				<p>A nativity-play, with real cattle.</p>
				<p>The whole audience had arrived an hour early, so as to see the entry of the cow. The children were just in time for this.</p>
				<p>The room was in the upper part of a warehouse, which had been built, through some freak of vanity, in the English fashion, several stories high; and was provided with the usual large door opening onto nothingness, with a beam-and-tackle over it. Many the load of gold-dust and arrowroot which must have once been hoisted into it: now, like most of the others at Santa Lucia, it had long since ceased to be used.</p>
				<p>But today a new rope had been rove through the block: and a broad bellyband put round the waist of the priest’s protesting old cow.</p>
				<p>Margaret and Edward lingered timidly near the top of the stairs; but John, putting his head down and burrowing like a mole, was not content till he had reached the open doorway. There he stood looking out into the darkness: where he saw a slowly revolving cow treading the air a yard from the sill, while at each revolution a negro reached out to the utmost limit of balance, trying to catch her by the tail and draw her to shore.</p>
				<p>John, in his excitement, leaned out too far. He lost his balance and fell clear to the ground, forty feet, right on his head.</p>
				<p>José gave a cry of alarm, sprang onto the cow’s back, and was instantly lowered away⁠—just as if the cinema had already been invented. He must have looked very comic. But what was going on inside him the while it is difficult to know. Such a responsibility does not often fall on an old sailor; and he would probably feel it all the more for that reason. As for the crowd beneath, they made no attempt to touch the body till José had completed his descent: they stood back and let him have a good look at it, and shake it, and so on. But the neck was quite plainly broken.</p>
				<p>Margaret and Edward, however, had not any clear idea of what was going on, since they had not actually seen John fall. So they were rather annoyed when two of the schooner’s crew appeared and insisted on their coming back to bed at once. They wanted to know where John was: but even more they wanted to know where José was, and why they weren’t to be allowed to stay. However they obeyed, in the impossibility of asking questions, and started back to bed.</p>
				<p>Just as they were about to go on board the schooner, they heard a huge report on their left, like a cannon. They turned; and looking past the quiet, silver town, with its palm-groves, to the hills behind, they saw a large ball of fire, travelling at a tremendous rate. It was quite close to the ground: and not very far off either⁠—just beyond the Church. It left a wake of the most brilliant blue, green, and purple blobs of light. For a while it hovered: then it burst, and the air was shortly charged with a strong sulphurous smell.</p>
				<p>They were all frightened, the sailors even more than the children, and hastened on board.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>In the small hours, Edward suddenly called Emily in his sleep. She woke up: “What is it?”</p>
				<p>“It’s rather cow-catching, isn’t it?” he asked anxiously, his eyes tight shut.</p>
				<p>“What’s the matter?”</p>
				<p>He did not answer, so she roused him⁠—or thought she had.</p>
				<p>“I only wanted to see if you were a <em>real</em> Cow-catching Zomfanelia,” he explained in a kind voice: and was immediately deep asleep again.</p>
				<p>In the morning they might easily have thought the whole thing a dream⁠—if John’s bed had not been so puzzlingly empty.</p>
				<p>Yet, as if by some mute flash of understanding, no one commented on his absence. No one questioned Margaret, and she offered no information. Neither then nor thereafter was his name ever mentioned by anybody: and if you had known the children intimately you would never have guessed from <em>them</em> that he had ever existed.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-4-3" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>The children’s only enemy on board the schooner (which presently put to sea again, with them still on board) was the big white pig. (There was a little black fellow, too.)</p>
				<p>He was a pig with no decision of mind. He could never choose a place to lie for himself; but was so ready to follow anyone else’s opinion, that whatever position you took up he immediately recognised as the best, the only site: and came and routed you out of it. Seeing how rare shady patches of deck are in a calm, or dry patches in a stiff breeze, this was a most infernal nuisance. One is so defenceless against big pigs when lying on one’s back.</p>
				<p>The little black one could be a nuisance also, it is true⁠—but that was only from excess of friendliness. He hated to be left out of any party: nay more, he hated lying on inanimate matter if a living couch was to be found.</p>
				<p>On the north beach of Cape San Antonio it is possible to land a boat, if you pick your spot. About fifty yards through the bushes there are a couple of acres of open ground: cross this, and among some sharp coral rocks in the scrub on the far side are two wells, the northernmost the better of the two.</p>
				<p>So, being becalmed off the Mangrove Keys one morning, Jonsen sent a boat on shore to get water.</p>
				<p>The heat was extreme. The ropes hung like dead snakes, the sails as heavy as ill-sculptured drapery. The iron stanchion of the awning blistered any hand that touched it. Where the deck was unsheltered, the pitch boiled out of the seams. The children lay gasping together in the small shade, the little black pig squealing anxiously till he found a comfortable stomach to settle down on.</p>
				<p>The big white pig had not found them yet.</p>
				<p>From the silent shore came an occasional gunshot. The water-party were potting pigeons. The sea was like a smooth pampas of quicksilver: so steady you could not split shore from reflection, till the casual collision of a pelican broke the phantom. The crew were mending sails, under the awning, with infinite slowness: all except one negro, who straddled the bowsprit in his trousers, admiring his own grin in the mirror beneath. The sun lit an iridescent glimmer on his shoulders: in such a light even a negro could not be black.</p>
				<p>Emily was missing John badly: but the little black pig snuffled in supreme content, his snout buried amicably in her armpit.</p>
				<p>When the boatload returned, they had other game besides pigeons and grey land-crabs. They had stolen a goat from some lonely fisherman.</p>
				<p>It was just as they came up over the side that the big white pig discovered the party under the awning, and prepared for the attack. But the goat at that moment bounded nimbly from the bulwarks: and without even stopping to look round, swallowed his chin and charged. He caught the old pig full in the ribs, knocking his wind out completely.</p>
				<p>Then the battle began. The goat charged, the pig screamed and hustled. Each time the goat arrived at him the pig yelled as if he was killed; but each time the goat drew back the pig advanced towards him. The goat, his beard flying like a prophet’s, his eyes crimson and his scut as lively as a lamb’s at the teat, bounded in, bounded back into the bows for a fresh run: but at each charge his run grew shorter and shorter. The pig was hemming him in.</p>
				<p>Suddenly the pig gave a frightful squeal, chiefly in surprise at his own temerity, and pounced. He had got the goat cornered against the windlass: and for a few flashing seconds bit and trampled.</p>
				<p>It was a very chastened goat which was presently led off to his quarters: but the children were prepared to love him forever, for the heroic bangs he had given the old tyrant.</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>But he was not entirely inhuman, that pig. That same afternoon, he was lying on the hatch eating a banana. The ship’s monkey was swinging on a loose tail of rope; and spotting the prize, swung further and further till at last he was able to snatch it from between his very trotters. You would never have thought that the immobile mask of a pig could wear a look of such astonishment, such dismay, such piteous injury.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
