<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
			<section id="chapter-2-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>All night the water poured through the house floor onto the people sheltering below: but (perhaps owing to the madeira) it did them no harm. Shortly after the second bout of blowing, however, the rain stopped; and when dawn came <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thornton crept out to assess the damage.</p>
				<p>The country was quite unrecognisable, as if it had been swept by a spate. You could hardly tell, geographically speaking, where you were. It is vegetation which gives the character to a tropic landscape, not the shape of the ground: and all the vegetation, for miles, was now pulp. The ground itself had been ploughed up by instantaneous rivers, biting deep into the red earth. The only living thing in sight was a cow: and she had lost both her horns.</p>
				<p>The wooden part of the house was nearly all gone. After they had succeeded in reaching shelter, one wall after another had blown down. The furniture was splintered into matchwood. Even the heavy mahogany dining-table, which they loved, and had always kept with its legs in little glass baths of oil to defeat the ants, was spirited right away. There were some fragments which might be part of it, or they might not: you could not tell.</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thornton returned to the cellar and helped his wife out: she was so cramped as hardly to be able to move. They knelt down together and thanked God for not having treated them any worse. Then they stood up and stared about them rather stupidly. It seemed not credible that all this had been done by a current of air. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thornton patted the atmosphere with his hand. When still, it was so soft, so rare: how could one believe that Motion, itself something impalpable, had lent it a hardness: that this gentle, hind-like Meteor should have last night seized Fat Betsy with the rapacity of a tiger and the lift of a roc, and flung her, as he had seen her flung, across two fair-sized fields?</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton understood his gesture.</p>
				<p>“Remember who is its Prince,” she said.</p>
				<p>The stable was damaged, though not completely destroyed: and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thornton’s mule was so much hurt he had to tell a negro to cut its throat. The buggy was smashed beyond repair. The only building undamaged was a stone chamber which had been the hospital of the old sugar-estate: so they woke the children, who were feeling ill and beyond words unhappy, and moved into this: where the negroes, with an unexpected energy and kindliness, did everything they could to make them comfortable. It was paved and unlighted: but solid.</p>
				<p>The children were bilious for a few days, and inclined to dislike each other: but they accepted the change in their lives practically without noticing it. It is a fact that it takes experience before one can realise what is a catastrophe and what is not. Children have little faculty of distinguishing between disaster and the ordinary course of their lives. If Emily had known this was a <em>Hurricane</em>, she would doubtless have been far more impressed, for the word was full of romantic terrors. But it never entered her head: and a thunderstorm, however severe, is after all a commonplace affair. The mere fact that it had done incalculable damage, while the earthquake had done none at all, gave it no right whatever to rival the latter in the hierarchy of cataclysms: an Earthquake is a thing apart. If she was silent, and inclined to brood over some inward terror, it was not the hurricane she was thinking of, it was the death of Tabby. That, at times, seemed a horror beyond all bearing. It was her first intimate contact with death⁠—and a death of violence, too. The death of Old Sam had no such effect: there is, after all, a vast difference between a negro and a favourite cat.</p>
				<p>There was something enjoyable, too, in camping in the hospital: a sort of everlasting picnic in which their parents for once were taking part. Indeed it led them to begin for the first time to regard their parents as rational human beings, with understandable tastes⁠—such as sitting on the floor to eat one’s dinner.</p>
				<p>It would have surprised <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton very much to have been told that hitherto she had meant practically nothing to her children. She took a keen interest in Psychology (the Art Babblative, Southey calls it). She was full of theories about their upbringing which she had not time to put into effect; but nevertheless she thought she had a deep understanding of their temperaments and was the centre of their passionate devotion. Actually, she was congenitally incapable of telling one end of a child from the other. She was a dumpy little woman⁠—Cornish, I believe. When she was herself a baby she was so small they carried her about on a cushion for fear a clumsy human arm might damage her. She could read when she was two and a half. Her reading was always serious. Nor had she been backward in the humaner studies: her mistresses spoke of her Deportment as something rarely seen outside the older Royal Houses: in spite of a figure like a bolster, she could step into a coach like an angel getting onto a cloud. She was very quick-tempered.</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bas-Thornton also had every accomplishment, except two: that of primogeniture, and that of making a living. Either would have provided for them.</p>
				<p>If it would have surprised the mother, it would undoubtedly have surprised the children also to be told how little their parents meant to them. Children seldom have any power of quantitative self-analysis: whatever the facts, they believe as an article of faith that they love Father and Mother first and equally. Actually, the Thornton children had loved Tabby first and foremost in all the world, some of each other second, and hardly noticed their mother’s existence more than once a week. Their father they loved a little more: partly owing to the ceremony of riding home on his stirrups.</p>
				<p>Jamaica remained, and blossomed anew, its womb being inexhaustible. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton remained, and with patience and tears tried to reconstruct things, in so far as they could be reconstructed. But the danger which their beloved little ones had been through was not a thing to risk again. Heaven had warned them. The children must go.</p>
				<p>Nor was the only danger physical.</p>
				<p>“That awful night!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton, once, when discussing their plan of sending them home to school: “Oh my dear, what the poor little things must have suffered! Think how much more acute Fear is to a child! And they were so brave, so English.”</p>
				<p>“I don’t believe they realised it.” (He only said that to be contradictious: he could hardly expect it to be taken seriously.)</p>
				<p>“You know, I am terribly afraid what permanent, <em>inward</em> effect a shock like that may have on them. Have you noticed they never so much as mention it? In England they would at least be safe from dangers of that sort.”</p>
				<p>Meanwhile the children, accepting the new life as a matter of course, were thoroughly enjoying it. Most children, on a railway journey, prefer to change at as many stations as possible.</p>
				<p>The rebuilding of Ferndale, too, was a matter of absorbing interest. For there is one advantage to these matchbox houses⁠—easy gone, easy come: and once begun, the work proceeded apace. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thornton himself led the building gang, employing no end of mechanical devices of his own devising, and it was not long before the day came when he stood with his handsome head emerging through the fast dwindling hole in the new roof, shouting directions to the two black carpenters, who, lying spread-eagle in their check shirts, pinned on shingle after shingle⁠—walling him in, like the victim in some horrid story. At last he had to draw in his head, and where it had been the last few shingles were clapped into place.</p>
				<p>An hour later the children had looked their last on Ferndale.</p>
				<p>When they had been told they were to go to England, they had received it as an isolated fact: thrilling in itself, but without any particular causation⁠—for it could hardly be due to the death of the cat, and nothing else of importance had occurred lately.</p>
				<p>The first stage of their journey was by land, to Montego Bay, and the notable thing about it was that the borrowed wagonette was drawn not by a pair of horses or a pair of mules, but by one horse and one mule. Whenever the horse wanted to go fast the mule fell asleep in the shafts: and if the driver woke it up it set off at a gallop, which angered the horse. Their progress would have been slow anyhow, as all the roads were washed away.</p>
				<p>John was the only one who could remember England. What he remembered was sitting at the top of a flight of stairs, which was fenced off from him by a little gate, playing with a red toy milk-cart: and he knew, without having to look, that in the room on the left Baby Emily was lying in her cot. Emily <em>said</em> she could remember something which sounded like a Prospect of the Backs of some Brick Houses at Richmond: but she might have invented it. The others had been born in the Island⁠—Edward only just.</p>
				<p>They all had, nevertheless, most elaborate ideas about England, built up out of what their parents had told them, and from the books and old magazines they sometimes looked at. Needless to say it was a very Atlantis, a land at the back of the North Wind: and going there was about as exciting as it would be to die and go to Heaven.</p>
				<p>John told them all about the top of the stairs for the hundredth time as they drove along; the others listening attentively (as the Believing do to a man remembering his reincarnations).</p>
				<p>Suddenly Emily recalled sitting at a window and seeing a big bird with a beautiful tail. At the same time there had been a horrid screeching going on, or perhaps something else disagreeable⁠—she could not quite remember which sense was offended. It did not occur to her that it was this selfsame bird which had screeched: and anyhow it was all too vague for her to try to describe it. She switched off to wondering how it was possible actually to <em>sleep</em> when walking, as the driver said the mule did.</p>
				<p>They put up for the first night at <abbr>St.</abbr> Anne’s, and there another notable thing occurred. Their host was a hardened Creole: and at supper he ate Cayenne pepper with a spoon. Not ordinary Cayenne pepper, mind, such as is sold in shops, which is heavily adulterated with logwood: but the far fierier pure original. This indeed was an Event of the first water: none of them ever forgot it.</p>
				<p>The desolation through which they drove is indescribable. Tropical scenery is anyhow tedious, prolific, and gross: the greens more or less uniform: great tubular stems supporting thick leaves: no tree has an outline because it is crushed up against something else⁠—no <em>room</em>. In Jamaica this profusion swarms over the very mountain ranges: and even the peaks are so numerous that on the top of one you are surrounded by others, and can see nothing. There are hundreds of flowers. Then imagine all this luxuriance smashed, as with a pestle and mortar⁠—crushed, pulped, and already growing again! <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thornton and his wife were ready to shout with relief when they caught their first glimpse of the sea, and at last came out in view of the whole beautiful sweep of Montego Bay itself.</p>
				<p>In the open sea there was a considerable swell: but within the shelter of the coral reef, with its pinhole entrance, all was still as a mirror, where three ships of different sizes lay at anchor, the whole of each beautiful machine repeated in the water under it. Within the Roads lay the Bogue Islands; and immediately to the left of the islands, in the low land at the base of the hills, was the mouth of a small river⁠—swampy, and (<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thornton informed John) infested with crocodiles. The children had never seen a crocodile, and hoped one might venture as far as the town, where they presently arrived: but none did. It was with considerable disappointment that they found they were to go on board the barque at once; for they still hoped that round some corner of the street a crocodile might yet appear.</p>
				<p>The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Clorinda</i> had let go her anchor in six fathoms: the water so clear, and the light so bright, that as they drew near the reflection suddenly disappeared, and instead they found themselves looking right underneath her and out the other side. The refraction made her seem as flat-bellied as a turtle, as if practically all of her were above the surface: and the anchor on its cable seemed to stream out flatly, like a downwards kite, twisting and twining (owing to the undulating surface) in the writhing coral.</p>
				<p>This was the only impression Emily retained of going on board the ship: but the ship itself was a strange enough object, requiring all her attention. John was the only one who could remember the journey out at all clearly. Emily thought she could, but was really only remembering her visualisations of what she had been told: in fact, she found that a real ship was totally unlike the thing she thought she remembered.</p>
				<p>By some last whim of the captain’s the shrouds were being set up⁠—tauter than seemed good to the sailors, who grumbled as they strained the creaking lanyards. John did not envy them, winding away at that handle in the hot sun: but he did envy the chap whose job it was to dip his hand in a great pot of aromatic Stockholm tar, and work it into the dead-eyes. He was tarred up to the elbows: and John itched to be so too.</p>
				<p>In a moment the children were scattered all over the ship, smelling here, meowing, sniffing there, like cats in a new home. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton stood by the main companionway, a little disconsolate at their children’s happy preoccupation, a little regretting the lack of proper emotional scene.</p>
				<p>“I think they will be happy here, Frederic,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton. “I wish we could have afforded to send them by the steamboat: but children find amusement even in discomfort.”</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thornton grunted.</p>
				<p>“I wish schools had never been invented!” he suddenly burst out: “they wouldn’t then be so indispensable!”</p>
				<p>There was a short pause for the logic of this to cross the footlights: then he went on:</p>
				<p>“I know what will happen; they’ll come away⁠ ⁠… <em>mugs</em>! Just ordinary little mugs, like anyone else’s brats! I’m dashed if I don’t think a hundred hurricanes would be better than that.”</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton shuddered: but she continued bravely:</p>
				<p>“You know, I think they were getting almost <em>too</em> devoted to us? We have been such an unrivalled centre of their lives and thoughts. It doesn’t do for minds developing to be completely dependent on one person.”</p>
				<p>Captain Marpole’s grizzled head emerged from the scuttle. A sea-dog: clear blue eyes of a translucent trustworthiness: a merry, wrinkled, morocco-coloured face: a rumbling voice.</p>
				<p>“He’s too good to be true,” whispered <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton.</p>
				<p>“Not at all! It’s a sophism to imagine people don’t conform to type!” barked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thornton. He felt at sixes and sevens.</p>
				<p>Captain Marpole certainly looked the ideal Children’s Captain. He would, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton decided, be careful without being fussy⁠—for she was all in favour of courageous gymnastics, though glad she would not have to witness them herself. Captain Marpole cast his eyes benignantly over the swarming imps.</p>
				<p>“They’ll worship him,” she whispered to her husband. (She meant, of course, that he would worship them.) It was an important point, this, of the captain: important as the personality of a headmaster.</p>
				<p>“So that’s the nursery, eh?” said the captain, crushing <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton’s hand. She strove to answer, but found her throat undoubtedly paralysed. Even <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thornton’s ready tongue was at a loss. He looked hard at the captain, jerked his thumb towards the children, wrestled in his mind with an elaborate speech, and finally enunciated in a small, unlikely voice:</p>
				<p>“Smack ’em.”</p>
				<p>Then the captain had to go about his duties: and for an hour the father and mother sat disconsolately on the main-hatch, quite deserted. Even when all was ready for departure it was impossible to muster the flock for a collective goodbye.</p>
				<p>Already the tug was fulminating in its gorge: and ashore they must go. Emily and John had been captured, and stood talking uneasily to their parents, as if to strangers, using only a quarter of their minds. With a rope to be climbed dangling before his very nose, John simply did not know how this delay was to be supported, and lapsed into complete silence.</p>
				<p>“Time to go ashore, Ma’am,” said the captain: “we must be off now.”</p>
				<p>Very formally the two generations kissed each other, and said farewell. Indeed the elders were already at the gangway before the meaning of it all dawned in Emily’s head. She rushed after her mother, gripped her ample flesh in two strong fists, and sobbed and wept, “Come too, Mother, oh, do come too!”</p>
				<p>Honestly, it had only occurred to her that very moment that this was a <em>parting</em>.</p>
				<p>“But think what an adventure it will be,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton bravely: “much more than if I come too!⁠—You’ll have to look after the Liddlies just as if you were a real grownup!”</p>
				<p>“But I don’t want any more adventures!” sobbed Emily: “I’ve <em>got</em> an <em>Earthquake</em>!”</p>
				<p>Passions were running far too high for anyone to be aware how the final separation took place. The next thing <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton could remember was how tired her arm had been, after waving and waving at that dwindling speck which bore away on the land breeze, hung awhile stationary in the intervening calm, then won the Trade and climbed up into the blue.</p>
				<p>Meanwhile, at the rail stood Margaret Fernandez, who, with her little brother Harry, was going to England by the same boat. No one had come to see them off: and the brown nurse who was accompanying them had gone below the moment she came on board, so as to be ill as quickly as possible. How handsome <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bas-Thornton had looked, with his English distinction! Yet everyone knew he had no money. Her set white face was turned towards the land, her chin quivering at intervals. Slowly the harbour disappeared: the disordered profligacy of the turbulent, intricate mass of hills sunk lower in the sky. The occasional white houses, and white puffs of steam and smoke from the sugar-mills, vanished. At last the land, all palely shimmering like the bloom on grapes, settled down into the mirror of emerald and blue.</p>
				<p>She wondered whether the Thornton children would prove companionable, or a nuisance. They were all younger than she was: which was a pity.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-2-2" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>On the journey back to Ferndale both father and mother were silent, actuated by that tug of jealousy against sympathy which a strong common emotion begets in familiar rather than passionate companions. They were above the ordinary sentimentalities of grass-bereavement (above choking over small shoes found in cupboards): but not above a rather strong dose of the natural instincts of parenthood, Frederic no less than his wife.</p>
				<p>But when they were nearly home, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton began to chuckle to herself.</p>
				<p>“Funny little thing, Emily! Did you notice almost the last thing she said? She said ‘I’ve got an earthquake.’ She must have got it mixed up in her silly old head with earache.”</p>
				<p>There was a long pause: and then she remarked again:</p>
				<p>“John is so much the most sensitive: he was absolutely too full to speak.”</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-2-3" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>When they got home it was many days before they could bring themselves openly to mention the children. When some reference had to be made, they spoke round them, in an uncomfortable way, as if they had died.</p>
				<p>But after a few weeks they had a most welcome surprise. The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Clorinda</i> was calling at the Caymans, and taking the Leeward Passage: and while riding off the Grand Cayman Emily and John wrote letters, and a vessel bound for Kingston had taken charge of them and eventually they reached Ferndale. It had not even occurred to either parent that this would be possible.</p>
				<p>This was Emily’s:</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My dear parents,</p>
					<p>This ship is full of Turtles. We stopped here and they came out in boats. There is turtles in the saloon under the tables for you to put your feet on, and turtles in the passages and on the deck, and everywhere you go. The captain says we mustn’t fall overboard now because his boats are full of turtles too, with water. The sailors bring the others on deck every day to have a wash and when you stand them up they look just as if they had pinafores on. They make such a funny sighing and groaning in the night, at first I thought it was everybody being ill, but you get used to it, it is just like people being ill.</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p>
							<span epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your loving daughter,</span>
							<br/>
							<b epub:type="z3998:signature">Emily.</b>
						</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
				<p>And John’s:</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dearest Parents,</p>
					<p>The captain’s son Henry is a wonderful chap, he goes up the rigging with his hands alone, he is ever so strong. He can turn round under a bellying pin without touching the deck, I can’t but I hang from the ratlines by my heels which the sailors say is very brave, but they don’t like Emily doing it, funny. I hope you are both in excellent health, one of the sailors has a monkey but its tail is Sore.</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p>
							<span epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your affectionate Son,</span>
							<br/>
							<b epub:type="z3998:signature">John.</b>
						</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
				<p>That was the last news they could expect for many months. The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Clorinda</i> was not touching anywhere else. It gave <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thornton a cold feeling in the stomach to measure just <em>how</em> long. But she argued, logically enough, that the time must come to an end, all time does: there is nothing so inexorable as a ship, plodding away, plodding away, all over the place, till at last it quite certainly reaches that small speck on the map which all the time it had intended to reach. Philosophically speaking, a ship in its port of departure is just as much in its port of arrival: two point-events differing in time and place, but not in degree of reality. Ergo, that first letter from England was as good as written, only not quite⁠ ⁠… legible yet. And the same applied to seeing them. (But here one must stop, for the same argument applied to old age and death, it wouldn’t do.)</p>
				<p>Yet, a bare fortnight after the arrival of this first budget, still another letter arrived, from Havana. The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Clorinda</i> had put in there unexpectedly, it appeared: the letter was from Captain Marpole.</p>
				<p>“What a dear man he is,” said Alice. “He must have known how anxious we would be for every scrap of news.”</p>
				<p>Captain Marpole’s letter was not so terse and vivid as the children’s had been: still, for the news it contained, I give it in full:</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
					<header role="presentation">
						<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Havana de Cuba.</p>
					</header>
					<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Honoured Sir and Madam,</p>
					<p>I hasten to write to you to relieve you of any uncertainty!</p>
					<p>After leaving the Caymans we stood for the Leeward Passage, and sighted the Isle of Pines and False Cape on the morning of the 19th and Cape <abbr>S.</abbr> Antonio in the evening, but were prevented from rounding the same by a true Norther, the first of the season, on the 22nd, however, the wind coming round sufficiently we rounded the cape in a lively fashion and stood <abbr epub:type="se:compass">N½E.</abbr> well away from the Coloradoes which are a dangerous reef lying off this part of the Cuban coast. At six o’clock on the morning of the 23rd there being light airs only I sighted three sail in the Northeast, evidently merchantmen bound on the same course as ourselves, at the same time a schooner of similar character was observed standing out towards us from the direction of Black Key, and I pointed her out to my mate just before going below, having the wind of us he was within hailing distance by ten in the morning, judge then of our astonishment when he rudely opened ten or twelve disguised gun-ports and unmasked a whole broadside of artillery trained upon us, ordering us at the same time in the most peremptory manner to heave-to or he would sink us instanter. There was nothing to do but to comply although considering the friendly relations at present existing between the English and all other governments my mate was quite at a loss to account for his action, and imagined it due to a mistake which would be speedily explained, we were immediately boarded by about fifty or seventy ruffians of the worst Spanish type, armed with knives and cutlasses, who took possession of the ship and confined me in my cabin and my mate and crew forward while they ransacked the vessel committing every possible excess broaching rum-casks and breaking the necks off wine-bottles and soon a great number of them were lying about the deck in an intoxicated condition, their leader then informed me he was aware I had a considerable sum in specie on board and used <em>every possible threat which villainy could devise</em> to make me disclose its hiding-place, it was useless for me to assure him that beyond the fifty or so pounds they had already discovered I carried none, he grew even more insistent in his demands, declaring that his information was certain, tearing down the panelling in my cabin in his search. He carried off my instruments, my clothes, and all my personal possessions, even taking from me the poor Locket in which I was used to carry the portrait of my Wife, and no appeal to his sensibility, though I shed tears, would make him return this to him worthless object, he also tore down and carried away the cabin bellpulls, which could be of no possible use to him and was an act of the most open <em>piracy</em>, at length, seeing I was obdurate, he threatened to blow up the ship <em>and all in it</em> if I would not yield, he prepared the train and would have proceeded to carry out this devilish threat if I had not in this last extremity, consented.</p>
					<p>I come now to the latter part of my tale. The children had taken refuge in the deck-house and had been up to now free from harm, except for a cuff or two and the Degrading Sights they must have witnessed, but no sooner was the specie some five thousand pounds in all mostly my private property and most of our cargo (chiefly rum sugar coffee and arrowroot) removed to the schooner than her captain, in sheer infamous wantonness, had them all brought out from their refuge your own little ones and the two Fernandez children who were also on board and murdered them, every one. That anything so wicked should look like a man I should not have believed, had I been told, though I have lived long and seen all kinds of men, I think he is mad: indeed I am sure of it; and I take Oath that he shall be brought to at least that tithe of justice which is in Human hands, for two days we drifted about in a helpless condition, for our rigging had all been cut, and at last fell in with an American man-of-war, who gave us some assistance, and would have proceeded in pursuit of the miscreants himself had he not most explicit orders to elsewhere. I then put in to the port of Havana, where I informed the correspondent of Lloyds, the government, and the representative of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Times</i> newspaper, and take the opportunity of writing you this melancholy letter before proceeding to England.</p>
					<p>There is one point on which you will still feel some anxiety, considering the sex of some of the poor innocents, and on which I am glad to be able to set your minds at rest, the children were taken onto the other vessel in the evening and I am glad to say there done to death <em>immediately</em>, and their little bodies cast into the sea, as I saw with great relief with my own eyes. There was no time for what you might fear to have occurred, and this consolation I am glad to be able to give you.</p>
					<footer role="presentation">
						<p><span epub:type="z3998:valediction">I have the honour to be,<br/>
						Your obedient servant,</span><br/>
						<b epub:type="z3998:signature"><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Jas.</abbr> Marpole</b>,<br/>
						Master, barque <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Clorinda</i>.</p>
					</footer>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
