<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h2>
			<section id="chapter-6-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>The weeks passed in aimless wandering. For the children, the lapse of time acquired once more the texture of a dream: things ceased happening: every inch of the schooner was now as familiar to them as the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Clorinda</i> had been, or Ferndale: they settled down quietly to grow, as they had done at Ferndale, and as they would have done, had there been time, on the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Clorinda</i>.</p>
				<p>And then an event did occur, to Emily, of considerable importance. She suddenly realised who she was.</p>
				<p>There is little reason that one can see why it should not have happened to her five years earlier, or even five later; and none, why it should have come that particular afternoon.</p>
				<p>She had been playing houses in a nook right in the bows, behind the windlass (on which she had hung a devil’s-claw as a doorknocker); and tiring of it was walking rather aimlessly aft, thinking vaguely about some bees and a fairy queen, when it suddenly flashed into her mind that she was <em>she</em>.</p>
				<p>She stopped dead, and began looking over all of her person which came within the range of eyes. She could not see much, except a foreshortened view of the front of her frock, and her hands when she lifted them for inspection: but it was enough for her to form a rough idea of the little body she suddenly realised to be hers.</p>
				<p>She began to laugh, rather mockingly. “Well!” she thought, in effect: “Fancy <em>you</em>, of all people, going and getting caught like this!⁠—You can’t get out of it now, not for a very long time: you’ll have to go through with being a child, and growing up, and getting old, before you’ll be quit of this mad prank!”</p>
				<p>Determined to avoid any interruption of this highly important occasion, she began to climb the ratlines, on her way to her favourite perch at the masthead. Each time she moved an arm or a leg in this simple action, however, it struck her with fresh amusement to find them obeying her so readily. Memory told her, of course, that they had always done so before: but before, she had never realised how surprising this was.</p>
				<p>Once settled on her perch, she began examining the skin of her hands with the utmost care: for it was <em>hers</em>. She slipped a shoulder out of the top of her frock; and having peeped in to make sure she really was continuous under her clothes, she shrugged it up to touch her cheek. The contact of her face and the warm bare hollow of her shoulder gave her a comfortable thrill, as if it was the caress of some kind friend. But whether the feeling came to her through her cheek or her shoulder, which was the caresser and which the caressed, that no analysis could tell her.</p>
				<p>Once fully convinced of this astonishing fact, that she was now Emily Bas-Thornton (why she inserted the “now” she did not know, for she certainly imagined no transmigrational nonsense of having been anyone else before), she began seriously to reckon its implications.</p>
				<p>First, what agency had so ordered it that out of all the people in the world who she might have been, she was this particular one, this Emily: born in such-and-such a year out of all the years in Time, and encased in this particular rather pleasing little casket of flesh? Had she chosen herself, or had God done it?</p>
				<p>At this, another consideration: who was God? She had heard a terrible lot about Him, always: but the question of His identity had been left vague, as much taken for granted as her own. Wasn’t she perhaps God, herself? Was it that she was trying to remember? However, the more she tried, the more it eluded her. (How absurd, to disremember such an important point as whether one was God or not!) So she let it slide: perhaps it would come back to her later.</p>
				<p>Secondly, why had all this not occurred to her before? She had been alive for over ten years now, and it had never once entered her head. She felt like a man who suddenly remembers at eleven o’clock at night, sitting in his own armchair, that he had accepted an invitation to go out to dinner that night. There is no reason for him to remember it now: but there seems equally little why he should not have remembered it in time to keep his engagement. How could he have sat there all the evening without being disturbed by the slightest misgiving? How could Emily have gone on being Emily for ten years without once noticing this apparently obvious fact?</p>
				<p>It must not be supposed that she argued it all out in this ordered, but rather long-winded fashion. Each consideration came to her in a momentary flash, quite innocent of words: and in between her mind lazed along, either thinking of nothing or returning to her bees and the fairy queen. If one added up the total of her periods of conscious thought, it would probably reach something between four and five seconds; nearer five, perhaps; but it was spread out over the best part of an hour.</p>
				<p>Well then, granted she was Emily, what were the consequences, besides enclosure in that particular little body (which now began on its own account to be aware of a sort of unlocated itch, most probably somewhere on the right thigh), and lodgment behind a particular pair of eyes?</p>
				<p>It implied a whole series of circumstances. In the first place, there was her family, a number of brothers and sisters from whom, before, she had never entirely dissociated herself; but now she got such a sudden feeling of being a discrete person that they seemed as separate from her as the ship itself. However, willy-nilly she was almost as tied to them as she was to her body. And then there was this voyage, this ship, this mast round which she had wound her legs. She began to examine it with almost as vivid an illumination as she had studied the skin of her hands. And when she came down from the mast, what would she find at the bottom? There would be Jonsen, and Otto, and the crew: the whole fabric of a daily life which up to now she had accepted as it came, but which now seemed vaguely disquieting. What was going to happen? Were there disasters running about loose, disasters which her rash marriage to the body of Emily Thornton made her vulnerable to?</p>
				<p>A sudden terror struck her: did anyone know? (Know, I mean, that she was someone in particular, Emily⁠—perhaps even God⁠—not just any little girl.) She could not tell why, but the idea terrified her. It would be bad enough if they should discover she was a particular person⁠—but if they should discover she was God! At all costs she must hide <em>that</em> from them.⁠—But suppose they knew already, had simply been hiding it from her (as guardians might from an infant king)? In that case, as in the other, the only thing to do was to continue to behave as if she did not know, and so outwit them.</p>
				<p>But if she was God, why not turn all the sailors into white mice, or strike Margaret blind, or cure somebody, or do some other Godlike act of the kind? Why should she hide it? She never really asked herself why: but instinct prompted her strongly of the necessity. Of course, there was the element of doubt (suppose she had made a mistake, and the miracle missed fire): but more largely it was the feeling that she would be able to deal with the situation so much better when she was a little older. Once she had declared herself there would be no turning back; it was much better to keep her godhead up her sleeve for the present.</p>
				<p>Grownups embark on a life of deception with considerable misgiving, and generally fail. But not so children. A child can hide the most appalling secret without the least effort, and is practically secure against detection. Parents, finding that they see through their child in so many places the child does not know of, seldom realise that, if there is some point the child really gives his mind to hiding, their chances are nil.</p>
				<p>So Emily had no misgivings when she determined to preserve her secret, and needed have none.</p>
				<p>Down below on the deck the smaller children were repeatedly crowding themselves into a huge coil of rope, feigning sleep and then suddenly leaping out with yelps of panic and dancing round it in consternation and dismay. Emily watched them with that impersonal attention one gives to a kaleidoscope. Presently Harry spied her, and gave a hail.</p>
				<p>“Emilee‑ee! Come down and play House-on-fire!”</p>
				<p>At that, her normal interests momentarily revived. Her stomach as it were leapt within her sympathetically toward the game. But it died in her as suddenly; and not only died, but she did not even feel disposed to waste her noble voice on them. She continued to stare without making any reply whatever.</p>
				<p>“Come on!” shouted Edward.</p>
				<p>“Come and play!” shouted Laura. “Don’t be a pig!”</p>
				<p>Then in the ensuing stillness Rachel’s voice floated up:</p>
				<p>“Don’t call her, Laura, we don’t really want her.”</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-6-2" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>But Emily was completely unaffected⁠—only glad that for the present they were all right by themselves. She was already beginning to feel the charge of the party a burden.</p>
				<p>It had automatically devolved on her with the defection of Margaret.</p>
				<p>It was puzzling, this Margaret business. She could not understand it, and it disturbed her. It dated back really to that night, about a week ago, when she herself had so unaccountably bitten the captain. The memory of her own extraordinary behaviour gave her now quite a little shiver of alarm.</p>
				<p>Everybody had been very drunk that night, and making a terrible racket⁠—it was impossible to get to sleep. So at last Edward had asked her to tell them a story. But she was not feeling “storyable,” so they had asked Margaret; all except Rachel, who had begged Margaret not to, because she wanted to think, she said. But Margaret had been very pleased at being asked, and had begun a very stupid story about a princess who had lots and lots of clothes and was always beating her servant for making mistakes and shutting him up in a dark cupboard. The whole story, really, had been nothing but clothes and beating, and Rachel had <em>begged</em> her to stop.</p>
				<p>In the middle, a sort of rabble of sailors had come down the ladder, very slowly and with much discussion. They stood at the bottom in a knot, swaying a little and all turned inwards on one of their number. It was so dark one could not see who this was. They were urging him to do something⁠—he hanging back.</p>
				<p>“Oh, damn it!” he cried in a thick voice. “Bring me a light, I can’t see where dey are!”</p>
				<p>It was the voice of the captain⁠—but how altered! There was a sort of suppressed excitement in it. Someone lit a lantern and held it up in the middle. Captain Jonsen stood on his legs half like a big sack of flour, half like a waiting tiger.</p>
				<p>“What do you want?” Emily had asked kindly.</p>
				<p>But Captain Jonsen stood irresolute, shifting his weight from foot to foot as if he was steering.</p>
				<p>“You’re drunk, aren’t you?” Rachel had piped, loudly and disapprovingly.</p>
				<p>But it was Margaret who had behaved most queerly. She had gone yellow as cheese, and her eyes large with terror. She was shivering from head to foot as if she had the fever. It was absurd. Then Emily remembered how stupidly frightened Margaret had been the very first night on the schooner.</p>
				<p>At that moment Jonsen had staggered up to Emily, and putting one hand under her chin had begun to stroke her hair with the other. A sort of blind vertigo seized her: she caught his thumb and bit as hard as she could: then, terrified at her own madness, dashed across the hold to where the other children were gathered in a wondering knot.</p>
				<p>“What <em>have</em> you done!” cried Laura, pushing her away angrily: “Oh you wicked girl, you’ve hurt him!”</p>
				<p>Jonsen was stamping about, swearing and sucking his thumb. Edward had produced a handkerchief, and between them all they had managed to tie it up. He stood staring at the bandaged member for a few moments: shook his head like a wet retriever and retreated on deck, dang-danging under his breath. Margaret had then been so sick they thought she must really have caught fever, and they couldn’t get any sense out of her at all.</p>
				<p>As Emily, with her newfound consciousness, recapitulated the scene, it was like rereading a story in a book, so little responsibility did she feel for the merely mechanical creature who had bitten the captain’s thumb. Nor was she even very interested: it had been queer, but then there was very little in life which didn’t seem queer, now.</p>
				<p>As for Jonsen, he and Emily had avoided each other ever since, by mutual consent. She indeed had been in Coventry with everybody for biting him; none of the other children would play with her all the next day, and she recognised that she thoroughly deserved it⁠—it was a <em>mad</em> thing to have done. And yet Jonsen, in avoiding her, had himself more the air of being ashamed than angry⁠ ⁠… which was unaccountable.</p>
				<p>But what interested her more was the curious way Margaret had gone on, those next few days.</p>
				<p>For some time she had behaved very oddly indeed. At first she seemed exaggeratedly frightened of all the men: but then she had suddenly taken to following them about the deck like a dog⁠—not Jonsen, it is true, but Otto especially. Then suddenly she had departed from them altogether and taken up her quarters in the cabin. The curious thing was that now she avoided them all utterly, and spent all her time with the sailors: and the sailors, for their part, seemed to take peculiar pains not only not to let her speak to, but even not to let her be seen by the other children.</p>
				<p>Now they hardly saw her at all: and when they did she seemed so different, they hardly recognised her: though where the difference lay it would be hard to say.</p>
				<p>Emily, from her perch at the masthead, could just see the girl’s head now, through the cabin skylight. Further forward, José had joined the children at their game, and was crawling about on hands and knees with all of them on his back⁠—a fire-engine, of course, such as they had seen in the illustrated magazines from England.</p>
				<p>“Emily!” called Harry: “Come and play!”</p>
				<p>Down with a rush fell the curtain on all Emily’s cogitations. In a second she was once more a happy little animal⁠—<em>any</em> happy little animal. She slid down the shrouds like a real sailor, and in no time was directing the firefighting operations as imperiously as any other of this brigade of superintendents.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-6-3" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>That night in the Parliament of Beds there was raised at last a question which you may well be surprised had not been raised before. Emily had just reduced her family to silence by sheer ferocity, when Harry’s rapid, nervous, lisping voice piped up:</p>
				<p>“Emily, Emily may I ask you a question, please?”</p>
				<p>“Go to sleep!”</p>
				<p>There was a moment’s whispered confabulation.</p>
				<p>“But it’s very important, please, and we all want to know.”</p>
				<p>“What?”</p>
				<p>“Are these people pirates?”</p>
				<p>Emily sat bolt upright with astonishment.</p>
				<p>“Of course not!”</p>
				<p>Harry sounded rather crestfallen.</p>
				<p>“I don’t know⁠ ⁠… I just thought they might.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
				<p>“But they <em>are</em>!” declared Rachel firmly. “Margaret told me!”</p>
				<p>“Nonsense!” said Emily. “There aren’t any pirates nowadays.”</p>
				<p>“Margaret said,” went on Rachel, “that time we were shut up on the other ship she heard one of the sailors calling out pirates had come on board.”</p>
				<p>Emily had an inspiration.</p>
				<p>“No, you silly, he must have said <em>pilots</em>.”</p>
				<p>“What are pilots?” asked Laura.</p>
				<p>“They Come On Board,” explained Emily, lamely. “Don’t you remember that picture in the dining-room at home, called The Pilot Comes On Board?”</p>
				<p>Laura listened with rapt attention. The explanation of what pilots were was not very illuminating; but then she did not know what pirates were either. So you might think the whole discussion meant very little to her, but there you would be wrong: the question was evidently important to the older ones, therefore she gave her whole mind to listening.</p>
				<p>The pirate heresy was considerably shaken. How could they say for certain which word Margaret had really heard? Rachel changed sides.</p>
				<p>“They can’t be pirates,” she said. “Pirates are wicked.”</p>
				<p>“Couldn’t we ask them?” Edward persisted.</p>
				<p>Emily considered.</p>
				<p>“I don’t think it would be very polite.”</p>
				<p>“I’m sure they wouldn’t mind,” said Edward. “They’re awfully decent.”</p>
				<p>“I think they mightn’t like it,” said Emily. In her heart she was afraid of the answer; and if they were pirates, it would here again be better to pretend not to know.</p>
				<p>“I know!” she said. “Shall I ask the Mouse with the Elastic Tail?”</p>
				<p>“Yes, do!” cried Laura. It was months since the oracle had been consulted; but her faith was still perfect.</p>
				<p>Emily communed with herself in a series of short squeaks.</p>
				<p>“He says they are <em>Pilots</em>,” she announced.</p>
				<p>“Oh,” said Edward deeply: and they all went to sleep.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
